EMET 5.51 install script
========================

    Installs/configures Microsoft's Enhanced Mitigation Experience Toolkit (EMET)

    Usage:

    /install   - Install EMET 5.51 and apply low configuration
    /low       - DEP=ApplicationOptIn SEHOP=ApplicationOptIn ASLR=ApplicationOptIn Pinning=Enabled Fonts=Audit
    /medium    - DEP=ApplicationOptOut SEHOP=ApplicationOptOut ASLR=ApplicationOptIn Pinning=Enabled Fonts=Audit
    /high      - DEP=AlwaysOn SEHOP=AlwaysOn ASLR=ApplicationOptIn Pinning=Enabled Fonts=AlwaysOn
    /uninstall - Resets system settings and uninstalls EMET


This script is useful for testing EMET, and for situations where configuration
through GPOs or SCCM is impractical. It is designed to work with EMET 5.51,
which is the latest version of EMET at the time of this writing.
I intend to maintain this script to work with newer versions as Microsoft
releases them.

System Requirements
-------------------

Supported operating systems:

Windows 10 , Windows 7, Windows 8.1, Windows Server 2008, Windows Server 2012,
Windows Server 2012 R2, Windows Vista

- EMET 5.51 requires .NET Framework 4.5 or higher.
- For Internet Explorer 10 on Windows 8 you need to install KB2790907 – a
mandatory Application Compatibility update that has been released on
March 12th, 2013 or any other Application Compatibility updates for Windows 8
after that.


Setup
-----

The version of the .NET Framework runtime that is included in Windows versions
earlier than Windows 8 is too old to work for EMET. If you are deploying to
these older Windows versions, download the latest
[.NET Framework runtime installer][.NET] (4.6.2 as of this writing),
and place it in the same directory as `Deploy-EMET.ps1`.

Download [`EMET_Setup.msi`][MSI], and place it in the same directory as
`Deploy-EMET.ps1`.

### Local installation

Open a PowerShell session as an administrator by right-clicking on PowerShell
and clicking "Run as administrator".

`cd` to the directory where `Deploy-EMET.ps1` is located. Then run:

    PowerShell -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File  .\Deploy-EMET.ps1 /install

If the .NET installer `NDP462-KB3151800-x86-x64-AllOS-ENU.exe` is located in
the directory, it will be run silently. Next, `EMET_Setup.msi` will be
installed, and the default configuration will be applied.

### Remote installation

1. Place `Deploy-EMET.ps1`, `EMET Setup.msi`, and
`NDP462-KB3151800-x86-x64-AllOS-ENU.exe` in a new directory named `EMET`
2. ZIP up the directory, then place it in an accessible network share
3. Update `$RemoteArchivePath` to match the path to the EMET ZIP archive
3. Edit the `.\Deploy-EMET.ps1` commands in `Remote-Deploy-EMET.ps1` as needed
4. Run a command like the one below in a scheduled task or something:


    PowerShell -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File \\NAS\Remote-Deploy-EMET.ps1

If you need to change the configuration or uninstall EMET, use
`Deploy-EMET.ps1`:

     cd C:\Deployment\EMET
     PowerShell -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File  .\Deploy-EMET.ps1

Configuration
-------------

EMET has two main types of settings, `system` settings and `application`
settings.

### System settings

The system settings configure system-wide anti-exploit controls that are
built-into Windows, including:

#### Data Execution Protection (DEP)

Prevents the execution of code from data sections of memory. This feature is
the one that is most likely to break applications that use memory improperly.

#### Structured Exception Handler Overwrite Protection (SEHOP)

Ensures that a program only uses exception handlers defined by the application
as it was originally compiled.

#### Address Space Layout Randomization (ASLR)

Randomizes address space layout to prevent reliable buffer overflow attacks

#### Certificate Pinning (Pinning)

Configures IE and Microsoft Edge to check that certificates for popular
services like Office365 and Facebook match known good versions, and were not
generated by a rogue or compromised CA.


#### Block untrusted fonts (Fonts)

A feature introduced in Windows 10 that blocks the loading of all fonts that
are not from `%WinDir%\Fonts` directory. This prevents attacks from malicious
local fonts, and remote fonts, such as from web and email


The script can apply three different sets of system-wide settings, `low`,
`medium`, and `high`. These settings can be applied to existing EMET
installations by using the command line options `/low`, `/medium`, or `/high`.
These applied to existing EMET installations without the .NET Framework install
or the EMET MSI.

When in doubt, try the `high` preset first, as it provides the best protection,
and will still very rarely break some exceptionally poorly-written software.

The script also disables reporting to Microsoft, and hides the EMET tray icon
from the user.

#### low

This is equivalent to the "Recommended security settings" Quick Profile in the
EMET GUI.

    DEP=ApplicationOptIn
    SEHOP=ApplicationOptIn
    ASLR=ApplicationOptIn
    Pinning=Enabled
    Fonts=Audit

#### medium

    DEP=ApplicationOptOut
    SEHOP=ApplicationOptOut
    ASLR=ApplicationOptIn
    Pinning=Enabled
    Fonts=Audit

#### high

This is equivalent to the "Maximum security settings" Quick Profile in the
EMET GUI.

    DEP=AlwaysOn
    SEHOP=AlwaysOn
    ASLR=ApplicationOptIn
    Pinning=Enabled
    Fonts=AlwaysOn

### Application settings

EMET can provide additional protections on a per application basis. Default
application configuration profiles are included for many popular applications
that are frequent exploit targets, including:

- Microsoft
    - Internet Explorer
    - WordPad
- Windows Media Player
    - Skype
    - Lync Communicator
    - Photo Gallery
    - Office 2003-2016 and Office365
- Google
    - Chrome
    - Google Talk
- Mozilla
    - Firefox
    - Thunderbird
- Adobe
    - Photoshop CS – All versions
    - Adobe Acrobat/Reader 9-11
- Nullsoft
    - Winamp
- Opera Software ASA
    - Opera Browser
- RAR Labs
    - WinRAR
- WinZip Computing
    - WinZip (32 and 64 bit)
- VideoLAN
    - VNC
- Real Networks
    - RealPlayer
- mIRC Co
    - mIRC
- 7-Zip
    - 7-Zip
- Apple
    - Safari
    - QuickTime
    - iTunes
- Oracle
    - Java
- Foxit
    - Foxit Reader

### Pinned sites
- login.microsoftonline.com
- secure.skype.com
- www.facebook.com
- login.live.com
- login.skype.com
- twitter.com

Resources
---------

- [EMET home page][EMET]
- [EMET 5.51 user guide][guide]
- [EMET 5.5 converter][converter]


[.NET]: https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=53344
[MSI]: https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=53354
[EMET]: https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/security/jj653751
[guide]: https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=53355
[converter]: https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=50801
